data/blog/serverless-redis-nextjs.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Using Serverless Redis with Next.js'
publishedAt: '2021-03-19'
summary: "Did you know it's possible to use Redis for your entire database? Hashmaps, counters, sorted lists, and even queues. Learn how to deploy a Redis & Next.js app in a few short minutes."
image: '/static/images/serverless-redis-nextjs/og.png'
---

When front-end developers are learning the full-stack, they often stumble on which [backend to use](/blog/backend). If they hear Redis, they think of in-memory caching. That's what I thought, at least.
After doing more research, I was surprised to find Redis excels at [hashmaps, counters, sorted lists, and even queues](http://oldblog.antirez.com/post/take-advantage-of-redis-adding-it-to-your-stack.html). It's possible to use Redis for your entire database!

This article will explore using Redis with Next.js in Serverless environments.

### Creating a Redis Instance

[Upstash](https://upstash.com/) is the easiest way I've found to deploy a managed Redis instance. A few reasons I recommend it:

- There's a generous free tier, and then per-request pricing when you're ready to upgrade. This keeps costs free (or extremely low). There's even a $120/month cap to prevent surprises, plus reserved plans for larger projects.
- With Upstash, you can use Redis for more than just caching with durable storage. There's even [Strong Consistency](https://docs.upstash.com/docs/overall/consistency) mode for guaranteed, durable writes.
- It's fast. Really, really fast. Extremely low latency.

The Upstash Integration for Vercel makes it easy to get started with Serverless Redis. We'll start by deploying the [completed project](https://roadmap-redis.vercel.app/), and then running the application locally.

1. [Deploy the demo to Vercel using the Upstash Integration.](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fnext.js%2Ftree%2Fcanary%2Fexamples%2Fwith-redis&project-name=redis-roadmap&repository-name=redis-roadmap&demo-title=Redis%20Roadmap&demo-description=Create%20and%20upvote%20features%20for%20your%20product.&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Froadmap-redis.vercel.app%2F&integration-ids=oac_V3R1GIpkoJorr6fqyiwdhl17)
2. You'll be prompted to sign-up or sign-in to Upstash.
3. Then, you can create a free database and attach it to your Vercel project.
4. Click "Complete on Vercel".
5. That's it! You should have a deployed project and URL.

By default, both Vercel and Upstash use the `us-east-1` region for Serverless Functions. Using the same region is critical to minimize latency between your [Serverless Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/serverless-functions/introduction) and Redis.

### Connecting to Redis

After cloning our repo locally, we need to connect to our Redis instance. The `REDIS_URL` environment variable was added by the Upstash Integration while deploying. To run the application locally, we'll need to pull our environment variables locally using the [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/download).

```jsx
$ vercel link
$ vercel env pull .env.local
```

Alternatively, you can manually create an `.env.local` file in the root of your repository and add the Redis connection string.

```jsx:.env.local
REDIS_URL=redis://:password@endpoint:port
```

We'll use [ioredis](https://github.com/luin/ioredis), a Node.js Redis client with [async/await](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function) support, to connect to Redis.

```jsx:lib/redis.js
import Redis from 'ioredis';

const redis = new Redis(process.env.REDIS_URL);

export default redis;
```

Finally, we can use this inside any page or API Route to retrieve information from Redis.

```jsx
import redis from '@/lib/redis';

const value = JSON.parse(await redis.hget('feedback', id));
```

### Using Redis with Next.js

Here's a few common Redis commands you might need to use:

- Fetching a JSON object: `redis.hget('feedback', id)`
- Creating a JSON object: `redis.hset('feedback', id, "{'key': 'val'}")`
- Deleting by key: `redis.hdel('feedback', id)`
- Fetching a list of items: `redis.hvals('feedback')`

In the demo application, we use Redis for the following:

1. The feature list is server-rendered using `getServerSideProps`. We fetch all features and sort based on the score and title.
1. The initial feature list from the server populates the local cache of [SWR](swr.vercel.app). This ensures data remains up-to-date on the client-side.
1. When adding features or emails, a `POST` request is sent to an [API Route](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) to update Redis.
1. Adding/upvoting features will mutate the client-side cache for [optimistic UI updates](https://swr.vercel.app/docs/mutation).

You can view the entire Redis API [here](https://redis.io/commands). For more advanced Redis usage, see the Redis API compatibility with Upstash [here](https://docs.upstash.com/docs/overall/rediscompatibility/).

### Conclusion

I frequently need to store data, somewhere. It doesn't always need to be complex – a key/value store will often suffice.
After working more with Upstash, Redis is now my preferred solution for this (and apparently [many other people's as well](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/stack-overflow-developer-survey-2020-programming-language-framework-salary-data/)).

- [View the demo ✨](https://roadmap-redis.vercel.app/)
- [Deploy your own 🚀](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fnext.js%2Ftree%2Fcanary%2Fexamples%2Fwith-redis&project-name=redis-roadmap&repository-name=redis-roadmap&demo-title=Redis%20Roadmap&demo-description=Create%20and%20upvote%20features%20for%20your%20product.&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Froadmap-redis.vercel.app%2F&integration-ids=oac_V3R1GIpkoJorr6fqyiwdhl17)

**Bonus:** If you need to inspect your Redis database locally, check out [TablePlus](https://tableplus.com/) for a GUI and [redis-cli](https://docs.upstash.com/docs/overall/getstarted#connect-to-your-database) if you prefer the command-line.

Commit message:

Clarify Redis article if you're clone manually

data/blog/serverless-redis-nextjs.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Using Serverless Redis with Next.js'
publishedAt: '2021-03-19'
summary: "Did you know it's possible to use Redis for your entire database? Hashmaps, counters, sorted lists, and even queues. Learn how to deploy a Redis & Next.js app in a few short minutes."
image: '/static/images/serverless-redis-nextjs/og.png'
---

When front-end developers are learning the full-stack, they often stumble on which [backend to use](/blog/backend). If they hear Redis, they think of in-memory caching. That's what I thought, at least.
After doing more research, I was surprised to find Redis excels at [hashmaps, counters, sorted lists, and even queues](http://oldblog.antirez.com/post/take-advantage-of-redis-adding-it-to-your-stack.html). It's possible to use Redis for your entire database!

This article will explore using Redis with Next.js in Serverless environments.

### Creating a Redis Instance

[Upstash](https://upstash.com/) is the easiest way I've found to deploy a managed Redis instance. A few reasons I recommend it:

- There's a generous free tier, and then per-request pricing when you're ready to upgrade. This keeps costs free (or extremely low). There's even a $120/month cap to prevent surprises, plus reserved plans for larger projects.
- With Upstash, you can use Redis for more than just caching with durable storage. There's even [Strong Consistency](https://docs.upstash.com/docs/overall/consistency) mode for guaranteed, durable writes.
- It's fast. Really, really fast. Extremely low latency.

The Upstash Integration for Vercel makes it easy to get started with Serverless Redis. We'll start by deploying the [completed project](https://roadmap-redis.vercel.app/), and then running the application locally.

1. [Deploy the demo to Vercel using the Upstash Integration.](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fnext.js%2Ftree%2Fcanary%2Fexamples%2Fwith-redis&project-name=redis-roadmap&repository-name=redis-roadmap&demo-title=Redis%20Roadmap&demo-description=Create%20and%20upvote%20features%20for%20your%20product.&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Froadmap-redis.vercel.app%2F&integration-ids=oac_V3R1GIpkoJorr6fqyiwdhl17)
2. You'll be prompted to sign-up or sign-in to Upstash.
3. Then, you can create a free database and attach it to your Vercel project.
4. Click "Complete on Vercel".
5. That's it! You should have a deployed project and URL.

By default, both Vercel and Upstash use the `us-east-1` region for Serverless Functions. Using the same region is critical to minimize latency between your [Serverless Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/serverless-functions/introduction) and Redis.

### Connecting to Redis

If you're using Vercel, you can clone the git repository created during deployment.
The `REDIS_URL` environment variable was added by the Upstash Integration while deploying. To run the application locally, we'll need to pull our environment variables locally using the [Vercel CLI](https://vercel.com/download).

```jsx
$ vercel link
$ vercel env pull .env.local
```

If you're not using Vercel, you can clone this demo locally using `npx create-next-app --example with-redis roadmap`.
Then, create an `.env.local` file in the root of your repository and add the Redis connection string.

```jsx:.env.local
REDIS_URL=redis://:password@endpoint:port
```

We'll use [ioredis](https://github.com/luin/ioredis), a Node.js Redis client with [async/await](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/async_function) support, to connect to Redis.

```jsx:lib/redis.js
import Redis from 'ioredis';

const redis = new Redis(process.env.REDIS_URL);

export default redis;
```

Finally, we can use this inside any page or API Route to retrieve information from Redis.

```jsx
import redis from '@/lib/redis';

const value = JSON.parse(await redis.hget('feedback', id));
```

### Using Redis with Next.js

Here's a few common Redis commands you might need to use:

- Fetching a JSON object: `redis.hget('feedback', id)`
- Creating a JSON object: `redis.hset('feedback', id, "{'key': 'val'}")`
- Deleting by key: `redis.hdel('feedback', id)`
- Fetching a list of items: `redis.hvals('feedback')`

In the demo application, we use Redis for the following:

1. The feature list is server-rendered using `getServerSideProps`. We fetch all features and sort based on the score and title.
1. The initial feature list from the server populates the local cache of [SWR](swr.vercel.app). This ensures data remains up-to-date on the client-side.
1. When adding features or emails, a `POST` request is sent to an [API Route](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/introduction) to update Redis.
1. Adding/upvoting features will mutate the client-side cache for [optimistic UI updates](https://swr.vercel.app/docs/mutation).

You can view the entire Redis API [here](https://redis.io/commands). For more advanced Redis usage, see the Redis API compatibility with Upstash [here](https://docs.upstash.com/docs/overall/rediscompatibility/).

### Conclusion

I frequently need to store data, somewhere. It doesn't always need to be complex – a key/value store will often suffice.
After working more with Upstash, Redis is now my preferred solution for this (and apparently [many other people's as well](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/stack-overflow-developer-survey-2020-programming-language-framework-salary-data/)).

- [View the demo ✨](https://roadmap-redis.vercel.app/)
- [Deploy your own 🚀](https://vercel.com/new/git/external?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fvercel%2Fnext.js%2Ftree%2Fcanary%2Fexamples%2Fwith-redis&project-name=redis-roadmap&repository-name=redis-roadmap&demo-title=Redis%20Roadmap&demo-description=Create%20and%20upvote%20features%20for%20your%20product.&demo-url=https%3A%2F%2Froadmap-redis.vercel.app%2F&integration-ids=oac_V3R1GIpkoJorr6fqyiwdhl17)

**Bonus:** If you need to inspect your Redis database locally, check out [TablePlus](https://tableplus.com/) for a GUI and [redis-cli](https://docs.upstash.com/docs/overall/getstarted#connect-to-your-database) if you prefer the command-line.
